
ES|QLedit
This functionality is in technical preview and may be changed or removed in a future release. Elastic will work to fix any issues, but features in technical preview are not subject to the support SLA of official GA features.
The Elasticsearch Query Language (ES|QL) provides a powerful way to filter, transform,
and analyze data stored in Elasticsearch, and in the future in other runtimes. It is
designed to be easy to learn and use, by end users, SRE teams, application
developers, and administrators.
Users can author ES|QL queries to find specific events, perform statistical
analysis, and generate visualizations. It supports a wide range of commands and
functions that enable users to perform various data operations, such as
filtering, aggregation, time-series analysis, and more.
The Elasticsearch Query Language (ES|QL) makes use of "pipes" (|) to manipulate and
transform data in a step-by-step fashion. This approach allows users to compose
a series of operations, where the output of one operation becomes the input for
the next, enabling complex data transformations and analysis.
The ES|QL Compute Engineedit
ES|QL is more than a language: it represents a significant investment in new
compute capabilities within Elasticsearch. To achieve both the functional and performance
requirements for ES|QL, it was necessary to build an entirely new compute
architecture. ES|QL search, aggregation, and transformation functions are
directly executed within Elasticsearch itself. Query expressions are not
transpiled to Query DSL for execution. This approach allows ES|QL to be
extremely performant and versatile.
The new ES|QL execution engine was designed with performance in mind — it
operates on blocks at a time instead of per row, targets vectorization and cache
locality, and embraces specialization and multi-threading. It is a separate
component from the existing Elasticsearch aggregation framework with different
performance characteristics.
The ES|QL documentation is organized in these sections:
Getting started
A tutorial to help you get started with ES|QL.
Learning ES|QL
Reference documentation for the ES|QL syntax,
commands, and functions and
operators. Information about working with metadata
fields and multivalued fields. And guidance for
data processing with DISSECT and
GROK and data enrichment with ENRICH.
Using ES|QL
An overview of using the REST API, Using ES|QL in Kibana,
Using ES|QL in Elastic Security, and Task management.
Limitations
The current limitations of ES|QL.
Examples
A few examples of what you can do with ES|QL.
